Just distinctly remember that all these tables
set up in Duncan and you went in there by your
alphabet and there was a strategy and one of the
upperclassmen talked to me about the strategy,
but I was convinced at the end of it that the rest of
the semester would be easy after registration.
Registration was the hardest thing, because
you'd get five of your six courses, and then the
sixth one you couldn't get, so you'd have to go back
and start changing things, and it was all done, it
was all manual, and you were trying to get... One of
the good parts about it, I'm an early riser. I was
always an early riser. So I liked 8 o'clock. And not
a lot of people like 8 o'clock. And so Monday,
Wednesday, Friday 8, Tuesdays and Thursdays at 8,
I could get those courses. And I liked my courses in
the morning because I seemed to have a lull in the
afternoon. And so I tried to have the labs in the
afternoon, the coursework in the morning. uh...
because the lab work you were active and you know
that was you could kind of keep focus there but i
remember uh... registration being very
difficult were some of those first semester
courses important as you look back now do you
remember some of them some of the teachers well
first you know i took 105 and you were my instructor
did you also teach 106 history 106 see i don't know
if i had you both years both semesters or not But I
made two B's in 105 and 106, you know, freshman
history. You
know, pre-vet was kind of neat in that they were
preparing you not only for the sciences, but they
were also preparing you. to run a business. So you
took English literature, you took business
courses, you took history. And I remember the only
thing my daddy told me was take the hard courses and
take the courses that make you think and make you
write. So when I had a choice, I was always thinking
about that. Does this course And like I remember
taking speech and they they everybody was
avoiding that and my daddy, you know said, you know
That was being able to communicate was important.
So I took speech. I made good grading speeches
speech course And so I did well in the liberal arts
courses And I did okay in math, but I didn't do good
in chemistries matter of fact chemistry was why I
didn't get in vet school. And it was organic
chemistry, Dr. Rose. And what the funniest part
about that whole chemistry experience, because I
took eight hours of chemistry my freshman year,
eight more my sophomore year, so it was 16 hours of
chemistry. So I was in the chemistry building a
lot. And I remember bringing my children back to
A&M once, and you could still drive around the
campus then, and they were little. And I said, I
need to go show you the chemistry building. I said,
the only thing I really remember about it is it had
90 steps or something leading to the top. Well, I
found it. I knew exactly where it was. It had 13
steps. And so for some reason, I thought that you
had to walk forever to get up to the deck of the
chemistry building. And I remember liking Dr.
Rose. He was my organic chemistry teacher, and I
thought he was a good instructor. But I didn't do
well in organic chemistry, and that was the reason
I didn't get in vet school. I mean, that was, you
know, because Dr. Romaine said, Randy, we split
your GPR. We look at your liberal arts, and we go,
oh, hum, and we look at your sciences, and that's
what we focus on. And you've got good grades in
history and English in those courses, and you've
got okay grades in math, but chemistry and
physics, you know, you're a C student. And he says,
you know, we've learned that vet students who are C
students in organic, you know, don't make it
through vet school. And so, you know, you're going
to have a hard time. Now, I took veterinary
genetics and made an A in it. They let me take that.
And so there was some sciences, biology I did well
in because it was kind of, you know, there was bugs
and animals and I could relate it to a lot of things
in the ranch that I knew, farming and ranching. But
chemistry just didn't, I just didn't apply
myself. Back to that fall semester. As you got into
your company and into your outfit and started the
routine, describe a typical day, class day. What
time did you get up? What did you do when?
You know, a Monday through Friday.
Yeah. as a fish we didn't seem to wake up real early i
mean i woke up a long time before anybody else and
everybody was asleep and so i did some studying and
thinking early and then there was whistles and uh
you were whistle jock, and that was tough duty. And
I remember the first time I had a whistle jock, but
you had to run through the halls and blow the
whistle, and the first whistle was wake up, I
guess. And then it was about 20 minutes later,
there was a second whistle, or it was two whistles,
the guy would, you'd go through and you'd blow
twice, and that meant you had five minutes to
formation. So there was 20 minutes and that's when
you shaved and got dressed and everything. And
then you had this five minute call and then you had a
about a three-minute call, and then it was
fallout. And it seemed like the fallout was
hollered by the first sergeant. Mickey Ballard
was my first sergeant, and I liked him a lot. And
he'd holler out, and we'd fall out, and then we'd
stand there in formation and be inspected, and
then we'd march to Morning Chow. And I remember...
you know, telling my mother that not only did I not
like shoes, that I didn't know how to march. And she
said, and she says, well, Randy, they'll teach
you. And I'll never forget, it was one, two, I mean,
they taught us by the numbers how to left face,
right face, about face, and then how to march off
with our left and how to keep your thumbs down. And
what was really interesting for 33 years in the
Army, is West Pointers march well and Aggies march
well, and not many other ROTC cadets know how to
march. And if you see an Air Force officer in the
Army that knows how to salute, he's from A&M,
because the Air Force doesn't focus on things like
that, but the Air Force ROTC at A&M did, And so when I
would, you know, through the years, and I had five
joint assignments, so I was with a lot of Air Force
officers, and I would see one salute, I would know
whether it was an Aggie just because he knew how to
salute properly. So A&M did a good job there at the
beginning of teaching us the military skills and
the discipline, and then we'd march to chow, and we
had the longest way to march, and we'd sing our
chodis, and we'd march in. And then we ate family
style. And then there was cadets that were our
waiters, the cadets that were kind of working
their way through school, and they would get money
for waiting tables. And you would sit there at a
table with upperclassmen and you would eat square
meals forever. It seemed like you had to eat
square. And you had, of course, you had names for
all the chow. And you passed all the chow to each
other and make a round. And if you wanted seconds,
you'd have to ask for that. But I remember not
eating a lot at first because of the campusology
questions. And I kind of resented it, except as I
look back,
the motivation to eat. Because the chow was pretty
good. I mean, I thought the chow was good. And there
was plenty of it. And you were hungry. And so the
motivation to be able to eat was to learn your
campusology. And learning campusology was not, I
loved the way they did it. and I don't know when they
started it and if they still do it, but it wasn't in a
book. So just if you were a good memorizer, it
didn't help you. You had to go and see Lawrence
Sullivan Ross, 1838, 1898, soldier, state, or
scholarly gentleman, first president of Texas
A&M, and you had to go find Lawrence Sullivan Ross,
and you had to copy that inscription down in your
little notebook, and then you could memorize it.
And you went all over campus doing that. So within a
few days, you knew the campus or you didn't need
anything. Do you remember some trick questions,
some cush questions that were kind of tricky? Oh, I
don't recall that at all, sir. The favorite one
that I have learned is, and see if you can answer
this, how many stars are there in the Texas flag? I
vaguely remember that question, and I don't know
what the trick answer was. Whatever you say,
the... interrogator will answer the other one. If
you say one, he'll say no, there's two, there's one
on each side. If you say two, he'll say no, it's one,
and it goes through both ways. So the questions
y'all had were real questions. I thought were
straightforward. The other thing that I thought
was good, I didn't think it at the time, but I did
later, was the emphasis on everybody's names. And
so because no one's name is... I mean, that's the
most important thing to a person, and I started
figuring that out at A&M because I was never very
good with names before then, but you had to know
everybody's name, and you had to know all the
football players' names, the first team offense,
first team defense, what their number was, their
name was, and what city they were from, the town
where they were from in Houston and Texas. And
so... And so all those things, the motivation was
to eat, and the things they were trying to teach you
were important. The only thing that I would have
done different, and I did when I was a sophomore,
was I would explain to the fish why we were doing
these things. That wasn't, no one explained why
when I was a fish. I started figuring it out, and I
guess that was okay. But I found out later in
Vietnam, as an infantry company commander going
from foxhole to foxhole every night, every
foxhole of three to four men would say, why are we in
Vietnam? And so... You know, I always felt it was
important, when you had time, to tell people why,
from a leadership skill perspective. All right,
you finished child, then you had to hurry to your
eight o'clock class because you had a good
distance to cover. Yes, and the toughest part
about that was whipping out, and that's another
way you, if you wanted to get to class on time, you
better remember the people you met because if you
knew them and you could say, howdy, Mr. Jones, sir,
from, you know, Muleshoe, sir, taking veterinary
medicine, sir, you passed. You just kept going.
But if you didn't know that, you'd have to turn
around and whip out. And then depending on how
obnoxious the guy was or how mad or how much he
wanted to mess with you, he would walk you 100, 200,
300 yards away away from your point of destination
and to the point where almost in self-defense you
really started and as soon as I would get to class I
distinctly remember writing names down because I
figured my learning abilities
and it was really interesting because I used this
for years in the military I had to both write and
listen. I couldn't just listen.
Whatever my learning and brain housing group was,
it took both of those, effective listening and
writing the name. If I would write the name down,
and think about it, there was a chance I'd remember
it. If I didn't write it down, I'd see that guy
again. He'd know me, I'd know him, and I wouldn't
know his name, and we would go through that drill.
Right. You had classes pretty well all morning.
Yes. Then go back and fall in, march to China.
Right. Then in the afternoon, labs. What did you do
if you had any unscheduled classes? Well, for me, I
was, there was, our company was heavy into
intramurals. And I couldn't, I wasn't big enough
to play Aggie football, but we had a heck of a, you
know, a touch flag football team. And so as soon as,
I mean, I don't know when practice started, but we
would practice every day, you know, and there was a
core group of us. Where would y'all practice?
Well, right now there's dorms built there, but it
was between 17 and the athletic dorms there was an
open field. In Henderson. In Henderson, right.
And there was a series of marked-off fields, and I
guess every company was designated one or
something because we seemed to go to a different
one every time, but there were several fields
there that were just, I think they were only 80
yards or 60 yards long, but there were enough
fields for a good flag football practice. And
having some high school football experience, did
that help you gain acceptance in the outfit? Oh
yeah, I was not a great football player through all
my growing up. I had all the heart in the world and I
was determined And the coaches would let me play
because I was so dedicated in everything. But when
we started playing intramural football, I was a
star. And all of a sudden, you were the go-to guy.
and the quarterback was an upperclassman. You
very seldom had a fish quarterback, and so the
quarterback's an upperclassman, and I was a
receiver. And, you know, so. But back if you had,
let's say, an unscheduled hour between 10 and 11,
what did you and your buddies do? Well, I had two
wonderful friends, the Melton twins from Lamar,
who were on a football scholarship. They lived in
Henderson Hall. And there was no harassing in
Henderson Hall. And so I would, at first, I would
always go to Henderson Hall any time I had a break.
And they left their room unlocked or something,
and I would go in there and study. After the other
place that I found was the library, they couldn't
arrest you in the library. And so I would, a lot of
times your classes were pretty close to the
library, so I would just beat it to the library. and
get up on the second deck or something, those big
wooden tables, and just study there in time. Later
I found out that for some reason they didn't harass
you in the MSC when you were, there's all these
little cubicles kind of in the MSC. There was no
prohibition against harassing, but just nobody
felt like doing it. I think the term Memorial
Student Center kind of took the edge off of the
upperclassmen. And so sometimes you could go to
the MSC and do some studying. And I was pretty
conscientious about all that. I mean, I wasn't a
good student. I mean, I wasn't a great student, and
I didn't like school. But I knew that I wanted to be a
veterinarian, and I knew I had to make certain
grades. And school was hard work for me. And so I was
pretty diligent in just trying to study. Plus, I
didn't like staying up late at night. I was not a
night owl. I got up early in the morning, but I went
to bed with chickens back then. And so I had to do a
lot of my studying during the day. All right.
You're getting involved in all these activities,
and then... here come some of the first big Aggie
traditional events. I presume Yale practice
would have been about, would have happened before
a Silver Taps or anything like that. Well, yeah,
and of course, starting in the fall, you had your
football games, so you had your Yale practice
before those. Where was Yale practice held then?
It seemed like, to me, it was held over at the Grove.
At the Grove, okay. And it wasn't at midnight, was
it? No, midnight, there was no such thing as
midnight yell practice, because it was good,
because I wouldn't have been awake. You know,
because nothing happens after 2100 worth of
staying awake for. And so, no, and I remember, you
know, I liked... all that stuff, you know, that was
okay, you know. Alright, then do you remember
going to your first home football games? Well, I
remember going, you know, marching into all the
games. And I remember the first games that were in
September. I don't know who we were playing, but I
remember we were on the east side facing the west
side. And you stood up at all of the games. You never
sat down. And I remember saying that I never was as
tired as a player when I played nine years of Texas
football. I was never as tired as a player as I was as
a fan because of the way, you know, the focus of the
game. So, you know, marching in, falling in, you
know, with your company, all the, you know, that
was kind of all hard work, you know, really. Did you
have any dates? Yeah, Jeannie and I, my wife, we
dated in high school. Okay. And so we continued to
date, and... She had a real good friend in
Navasota, so she could come up on the bus from
Houston to Navasota and stay with her friend, and
then I could go down and get her Saturday mornings
and bring her up to the games. But I don't recall...
I don't recall doing that a whole lot, but she does.
So, I mean, we did do that. Even as a fish? I think so,
yeah. I think so. Now, then after the game was over,
what did Aggie freshmen do on a Saturday night?
Well,
the first couple of games, you know, we were
restricted to the campus. And so we just, you know,
went back to the barracks and And I just remember
just kind of being in the barracks. Now, the only
exception to that, and I don't know, Billy
Provine, my roommate's older brother, was a
junior in the Air Force, ROTC. And so he had a car,
Chevrolet Impala. And Billy loved his Budweiser
and would... sneak out after the games, get his
brother's car, I guess in agreement with his
brother, and this was a dry county back then, but
Billy would drive out to a place, and I swear it was
called Pop's Place, but I don't know for sure, but
it was out towards Austin, you know, past Snook or
somewhere out there, and Billy would drink
Budweiser. Well, Billy was a good man, but, you
know, he would drink too much. I was a non-drinker,
absolute teetotaler. And so Pop would call back to
the barracks, get the CQ. We didn't have phones in
our rooms or anything. CQ would send the CQ runner,
and they'd come get me, and I'd go down the hall, and
I'd talk to the proprietor there, Pops. And this
was another motivation to get my Jeep, because
then I would... talk either talk to CQ or I would
sneak out and I would go get Billy and the first time
I'll never forget going out there to get him you
know he went out in his car and I went out in my jeep or
in a car another car and drove up there and I was
trying to figure out how I was going to get both cars
back because I knew he couldn't drive And I walked
in there, and there he was at the bar. And Billy was
just a wonderful human being, but he had drank too
much. And so I said, Billy, it's time to go. Let's
get on back. And he'd look, and he'd say, I need one
more beer. And Pop says, he doesn't have any money.
And I'd say, Billy, you don't have any money? And
I'm not going to give you any money. And so Billy,
the first night, looked at Pop, and he says, Pop, if
I can bite my eyeball, can I have a beer? Pop looked
at him and said, Billy, I don't know what the scam
is, but it's worth it. So we poured him a Budweiser.
And Billy savored this Budweiser for 15 minutes.
And at the end, Pop says, OK, Billy, bite your
eyeball. Billy pops out an artificial eye and
bites it. He had had a hunting accident. He was a
wonderful hunter. And his brother, they were dove
hunting in Louisiana, had shot and shot his eye
out. And so he had an artificial eye. And I knew he
had an artificial eye, but I didn't know you could
pop those things out. And so Billy popped it out and
bit it. And then he told the story about it. And then
Pop said, well, how did it happen and everything?
And so, you know, then I say, okay, Billy, let's go.
And Billy looks at Pop and he says, Pop, I'd like
another Budweiser. And Pop says, Billy, you've
had too many. You don't have any money, and it's
time to go. And he says, if I can bite my other
eyeball, Can I have another beer? Well, Pop knew
he'd driven out there. Knew he wasn't blind. And he
says, Billy, I have no idea what the scam is, but it
is worth another Budweiser. So he pours him
another Budweiser. Billy savors that Budweiser
for 15 minutes, and then Pop says, okay, Billy,
what's the deal? Billy takes out his false teeth,
and he bites his other eyes. He'd been in a traffic
accident, and he had both false uppers and lowers.
Oh, my goodness. And so we went through college. We
went to all the, I mean, Billy went through college
with free beers doing that. And I participated in
this ritual. 100 times in four years. And then I had
to play straight faced. And it was always me
because I was always picking Billy up at some place
or the other. But I don't really remember any big
things. Sometimes they let you have a pass to go to
that movie theater in Northgate right across from
17. There was a Saturday night campus theater. I
remember we could go, we were living in 17, so
they'd give us a pass to go over there, and I think we
did that. But as soon as the grades were out, and I
had good enough grades to have my, as soon as the
game was over, I headed to the ranch. So I didn't
spend, matter of fact, back then, there was no
girls until my sophomore year, and my sophomore
year, 64, I think it was only nine on campus. And I
didn't even see one until my junior year, I think.
And so what A&M was back then was leaving A&M. I
mean, that's what you did. As a matter of fact,
anybody that stayed around, they called them
whole rats, and you worried about them. You know,
they were depressed or... or they were getting
down because what the normal Aggie did was leave
A&M, which is a great thing about bringing the
females because we lost a lot of cadets on Highway 6
and others and car crashes that if we'd have had
more activities on campus, those kids might not
have been traveling. If you were here on all
weekend, what did you do on Sunday? Well, I was a
member of St. Luke's Methodist Church in Houston,
a lifetime member, but I went to the A&M Methodist
Church, which was right by the post office. For
four years, my box number was 1207. And I'd go by the
post office and go there to the Methodist Church.
And I don't remember the minister's name, but I
know he was a good guy, and I liked Sundays over
there. I don't recall ever going to the A&M Chapel
or anything like that. I mean, being a Methodist,
that was a natural thing for me to do. Did you go on
Sunday night? No, because Sunday night, you know,
you always had your company meetings because they
wanted to make sure everybody was back and
everybody was okay. And so Sunday nights seemed to
be taken up with getting ready for the next week. So
I don't remember going to church on Sunday nights.
Court trip. Remember any of that fall? Well, there
was two. We went one to Houston, one to Fort Worth.
And the one to Houston, I'll distinctly remember.
because Captain Kieschnick, our company
commander, right before the Eyes Right, whoever
we were doing Eyes Right for, and he, you know,
we're marching down Main Street in Houston, and I
remember it was wet, you know, we're playing rice,
of course, and... He spun around, and I was way back
because I was a rear-ranked Rudy, so I didn't see
this. I just heard about it, and I saw all the
results of it. But he turned around in front of the
guide-on bearer there to, I think, speak to the
front line of seniors on something. And when he
spun back, his spurs locked, and he fell, and we
marched over him. And see... I think the first two
ranks parted and didn't touch him, but then after
that, you didn't know he was there, so he got
marched on. And so then, you know, he was, and it was
wet, and, you know, he had on his, I mean, he was a
good-looking man, too, and a good-looking
uniform, and he had to get up and run to the front,
and so when he did the passing review, I remember
seeing the pictures, because there was pictures
taken of every passing review, and He had these
muds, he had footprints all over his uniform where
people had accidentally, because I think most of
us liked Captain Kishnick. But he was marched on by
his own company. And that's what I remember of that
Corps trip was him tripping to the point that As an
officer, I was in many a parade. And you would spin
around like that to face the troops at times. And I
was always conscious of being careful. Now, I
didn't have on spurs. But I was careful that I
didn't lock my heels and fall in front of my men,
because I always felt bad for my company
commander. On the Corps trips to Houston, were you
expected to house a bunch of Aggies at your? In my
house? Yeah, I did, too. About how many might it be?
Well, I was fortunate. I lived in a big house, and my
brother was away at college, and so we had, I don't
know, I don't, There was more than one carload,
though. A lot of guys. Eight or ten? Yes, right. And
my mother enjoyed it all, and my daddy tolerated
it. And how did Aggies behave as guests at
someone's house? Well, I pretty well picked who I
wanted, and they all knew that, that I was from a
non-drinking family, so they behaved
themselves. Because we had heard about all the
drinking at court trips, and I said, guys, my
family doesn't drink, and I don't drink, and if
you're going to be in my house, you can't drink. And
so you can't come home drunk.
I said, my daddy was a football player at LSU. He was
a boxer at LSU. And we got a six-foot brick wall, and
he'll throw you over it. Now, was it normal on
Sunday morning that they would get up and head
away? Well, because I was from Houston, I had dates
for them all after the game, and then several of
them would go see their girlfriends again.